# Bankruptcy
ABSTRACT
Bankruptcy is legal proceeding initiated when a person or business is unable to repay outstanding debts or obligations. The bank process begins with a petition filed by the debtor, which is most common, or on behalf of creditors, which is less common. All of the debtor’s assets are measured and evaluated, and the assets may be used to repay a portion of the outstanding debt. Due to economic difficulties, companies are facing the risk of bankruptcy. In a financial point of view, predicting if a company will bankrupt can reduce possible waste of precision resources like time and money. Bankruptcy occurs when debts which are not paid to creditors in full are forgive for the owners. If we file for bankruptcy, it may be tough for us to get a new loan if we plan to start afresh. So, it’s better to check the current status of the company and by using the current technologies the company will know that whether they will survive or not in following years based on the current economic conditions. By knowing this will enable the company to take precautionary measures. The main aim of this project is to develop a prediction model to decide whether a company will bankrupt or not in the following year. The company bankruptcy was defined based on the business regulations of the Taiwan Stock Exchange. In this project we will use various classification algorithms on bankruptcy datasets to predict bankruptcies with satisfying accuracies long before the actual event.
The algorithms are Decision Tree and Gradient Boosting. Decision Tree, it is flowchart like structure in which each internal node represents a test on feature and leaf nodes represents a class labels. Gradient Boosting, it is a popular boosting algorithm. In gradient boosting, each predictor corrects it’s predecessor’s error.
